                                ===========
                                Kepler 1.0a
                                ===========

Congratulations, you have successfully installed the Kepler Orbit
Engine. This version (V1) has been released primarily for use
with the NOVAS-COM V2 Astrometric Engine. The 'a' re-release removes
an unintended dependency on ATL.DLL. Kepler is typically installed in 
the ASCOM common area at

  C:\Program Files\Common Files\ASCOM\Kepler

In addition, there is a sample script included with Kepler that allows
it, in combination with NOVAS-COM V2 to fetch orbital elements live
across the internet from the Minor Planet Center, feed them to Kepler,
attach Kepler to a Novas.Planet object, and generate an ephemeris for
the selected minor planet. Inspection of this sample should give you a
clear idea of how Kepler and NOVAS-COM V2 are designed to operate
together. To run the sample, make sure your are connected to the
internet, then open a DOS window to the Kepler installation directory
and type:

  C:\...\Kepler> cscript MPCEphem.js > MPCEphem.out

Check out the results file and compare to the epmerides for those
bodies as generated by the MPC. Check out the script itself too, and
change/add to the list of minor planets to process and re-run the
script. 

The author is indebted to Stephen Moshier <moshier@world.std.com> for
his work and software, which was drawn from heavily for Kepler.
Because Moshier's (and others') work is contained within Kepler, the
author is providing Kepler free of charge. The author will endeavor to
repair and enhance Kepler on an ongoing basis.

UNINSTALLING
------------

To remove Kepler from your system, open Add/Remove Programs in the
Control Panel, select Kepler Orbit Engine and click the Add/Remove
button. Choose "automatic" unless you are an advanced user.

  Robert B. Denny
  rdenny@dc3.com
  July 27, 2001

